string - any read text in ruy
to display text for a user to read

integer - all numbers
when trying to quantify variables

float - integer expressed with decimal
when trying to percisely  quantify variables

nil - default value of nothing
reseting a value 


boolean. -  true or false value/statement/variable
creating binary conditions 

algorithm
a process of calculation given a set of ordered commands and rules 

2 common categories of algorithm in computer science
list, arrays, and stacks & hash functions.

What is a method? Why might a programmer choose to use a method?
set of code that can be called at any point within a program.
Methods are more sufficient and processing multiple points of data and more effective when you have different bits of code that need to collaborate. 

Return value
type of return the method puts out given the declared value 
Side effect 
An unintended return or outcome from a method 
Parameter 
the variable that is part of the method's declaration
Argument
the information that taken or sent to the method and gets processed or modified and used to return specific results given what the code in the method does. 
Implicit Return 
The return value of the last evaluated expression in a method in cascading order. 

Global scope is the space of a scripting that encompasses information or data accessible out side of a function, basically variable defined outside of a function fall into the global scope.
Because not all data is entirely available in all realms of a program, that is, not all variables are accessible by all the parts of code, it can restrict how certain codes function on and how it may need to be written to do what it was intended for.

Flow-control
The management of data moving between to points, i.e. computers, etc. within a network so data is processed at a efficient pace. The prevention of a data based version of a traffic jam or highway collision. 
Programs would choose to use this to prevent a program from crashing from executing too much at once.
A
Loop would re-run the code within a method until a condition or a desired result is met. This prevents repeating code to to do the same task until that desired result or condition is met.

If can create specific condittions that results in a return value rather then having to arrive at the same condition in theory through much more necessary coding. Else and Elsif do the same as compliments to the It method. 
While and until are the actual variables with a built in method that results in a loop. While will generally create a loop until a condition is met while until creates a false/negative condition that loops until is met.


